two we have a bible for you on your way out if
you don't have a bible um also i love using the
bible speaking of a life church pastor that's here
today the holy bible is one of my favorite apps to
use um just be able to study god's word to be
able to go through devotionals it's a really
really good way to keep god's word with you if
you don't want to carry around your heavy book
which i love reading when i'm at home but when
i'm out i love the app so you need to read it
on the bible app and grab a bible on your way
out or today you can kind of see it here to the
text behind me today but we're going to be
in ephesians chapter 5. i started in verse 21
and i'm gonna talk a little bit about verse 21. i
really was playing a cover a little bit last week
but we've been walking through this book
and so here's the reason why i was actually
talking to elise and doug over here just a
minute ago the reason why we value walking
through books of the bible is there's a whole
picture there's a whole story to the letter
of why like this this writer paul wrote the letter
and so being able to see it all come together is
huge for us as believers because it really applies
to all areas not just one area so today we're just
so happy to be on this topic of what does marriage
look like within a gardening appearance right so
we're gonna talk about submission and it's gonna
be interesting because a lot of times if you guys
know where i'm going with this a lot of times you
hear this statement why send it to your husbands
and that's usually all you hear about in this text
the more i spent time in it men if you're in the
room this is really going to be a text that's
going to challenge you more than it is going to
challenge your wives um and so it's really cool
as we get to jump into this today um what this
text teaches us about relationships with other
people and so over the next couple of weeks we're
going to be dealing with relationships within
the marriage relationships with your children
relationships within your work um and how that
applies to our life um uh in our day-to-day life
so i want to kind of share this scenario with
you anybody ever had an argument with a spouse
and if you don't have a spouse maybe another
person where you know you were right anybody
i mean you know you were right and you're gonna
make sure they know you're right um that the
problem is that sometimes it's me every day right
because i'm kind of prideful and like being right
um but so so in that instance let's think within
the context of a marriage we want to be right
we know we're right and we're going to make
sure they know their life but in the end
even if they realize that they're wrong
the question is were you really right
we're gonna find today that answer is no i'm just
gonna read one of the verses that we'll highlight
even more later but in verse 31 it says this in
the context of marriage it says for this reason
a man will leave his father and mother and
be joined to his wife and two will become one
flesh so this idea behind winning arguments and
knowing your rights within the context of marriage
honestly when you're right and you're
winning the argument you're actually losing
um and it's hard to think that way really whenever
you were completely one right so when you're
battling each other and you're fighting against
each other you're really fighting against yourself
we're gonna kind of build on that today but this
kind of catch you up on where we've been we've
been again in the book of ephesians we've really
been talking about the first three chapters of
ephesians talks about all that god has done for
us and the last couple of chapters we've really
been dealing with this idea now that we know
all that god's done for us how do we walk as
basically a christ follower in that um and again
so we've been dealing with a lot of individual
things is how we are to live in purity and
we are to walk into thin light and we are to
live our lives on purpose because we have only
a limited amount of time so we've talked about
these things as individuals but it's getting ready
to translate now into relationships relationships
and the reason why i say that is if you are
going to follow jesus the only way in which
you really begin to show how you follow jesus
is in the process of the life of relationships
and so all of us here i'm just guessing you
guys have relationships either in the home
in your workplace maybe it's just in the community
but those relationships are ways for us to display
christ's love to the world and so i'm hoping
today that you'll get to kind of see a little
bit more of that but lastly i want to kind of
catch you up here last week we talked about
this in the texas is be filled with the spirit
what does it mean to be filled with the spirit
of means to be joyful we're doing this in verse
19 this is to be thankful we learned this in
verse 20. and the last one that we didn't talk
about that we're going to talk about more today
is submission and so if you're wanting to know
if you were spirit-filled it's these these things
that which you would show in your life to be
joyful and to be thankful and to be submissive
and it's interesting i'm going to read this
verse 21 it's a submitting to one another in
the fear of christ so submission is going to be
an interesting conversation we'll have with this
but its mission to one another is a way that we
display when you're filled with the spirit of god
and so there's more to that but i want to to
just even talk a bit more with this before we get
started is that our focus today is on marriage
but you're going to see this that it really is
on relationships and the number one most important
relationship that you have is your relationship
with jesus that dictates relationships so let's
read the full text and kind of teach them with a
couple of different verses here but in ephesians
chapter 5 verses starting in verse i'll start in
verse 22 since the country referenced from one
it says it says wives submit to your husbands
as to because the husband is the head of the
wife as christ is the head of the church he is
the savior of the body now as the church submits
to christ so also wives are supposed to submit to
their husbands in everything husbands love your
wives just as christ loved the church and gave
himself for her to make her holy cleansing and her
uh cleansing her with the washing of the water by
the wood and he did this to present the church
to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle
or anything like that but holy and blameless in
the same way husbands are to love their wives
as their own bodies he who loves his wife loves
himself for no one ever hates his own flesh but
provides and cares for him just as christ does
for the church since we are members of his body
for this reason a man will leave his father and
mother and be joined to his wife and two will
become one flesh and this mystery is profound but
i am talking about christ in the church to sum up
each one of them is to love his wife as himself
and his wife respect her husband so let's pray
and invite god in to open our hearts to what
he's saying so lord jesus we thank you again for
this time uh to open up your word to um really
important to be able to come open minded lord
with our hearts as well to see what you have
to say to us where we know your work is truth
and then we can gain so much wisdom from us or to
apply to our lives to live a life that honors you
but also is beneficial for us as we are still
here walking this earth and so we just pray
amen so if you're anything like me you read a text
like that and you go there's a lot going wrong
and i would agree with you it's a it's a lot
going on and so let me just share this with
me i try to be as honest as i possibly can
in studying god's word um i still struggle
getting into his word and totally understanding
everything so i had to break it down i don't want
you guys if you if you struggle reading does
work i don't know if you're with me i do okay
so what do i have to do i have to go in and
i have to kind of break this down and that's
what we're going to do here we're going to take
time to kind of break this down and look at it in
pieces because it's going to make sense as we do
that whenever i looked at this whole moment okay
this is a little bit complicated but let's let's
look at this together so we'll walk by verse by
person and just so you know i love including
you guys so i'm gonna ask a few questions i'd
love for some feedback and some answers as we walk
through this together and so the first thing here
it says is why submit to your husband's ass to the
lord right so what is submission when you look at
submission it's voluntary right it's a voluntary
attitude of giving in or cooperating it's a choice
it's not a force of submission it's a choice
what we see here it says to submit to husbands
as to the lord well if we want to know how a life
is to submit to a husband we first have to see
how she's supposed to submit to the lord right
we have to start there we don't start with the
husband when we start with how she's supposed to
submit to christ because that's the example so
that's what i started was how do we walk through
this so why submission to christ what does that
look like and so um let's start with this before
we kind of dive in and i kind of give you some
examples what do you believe it looks like for a
while to submit to christ what do you guys think
good what else
nope we're not there yet
so let's start with this why would a wife
want to submit herself to the lord let me
answer that question why would a wife
want to submit herself so let's just
look at this individually why would a woman
want to submit herself to work voluntarily
let's go back to that voluntarily giving
and cooperating right to be a part of
so it's kind of that idea so let's let's go back
to what i said earlier if the first three chapters
in ephesians said this is all that god's done for
us based upon what god's done for us so what has
god done for a wife uh again when we're talking
about this relationship with a wife and god or
christ yes he's given her grace and mercy and
forgiveness when i started thinking about this
god has shown her that he can care for her and god
has shown her that he loves her despite her flaws
that he can provide for her that he can empower
her this is this is important that he can empower
what does that mean that god can use that wife
to do amazing things right we talk about what is
god's purpose for your life everyone has a purpose
so that why as she submits herself to christ knows
that god's got to plan for her so that's a reason
why because of all that god's done for her she can
submit herself to christ because she knows that
christ will take care of her i don't know about
you guys but whenever somebody takes care of
me i think about it this way so maybe it works
more for me when i'm a part of an employed
employer that takes care of their employees
i'm confident i can trust them i can submit to
their leadership because i know they care for
me because i know they love them so think about
this as god the creator of the world the one who
created you loves you so much he cares for you he
desires a relationship with you right and so these
things are are the reason why when we think about
as a wife submits ourselves to the christ it's
and so we it's easy when we think about
this but when we look at this submission um
let me let me just read this you know this
morning start thinking so the why submits to
god because he has done so much for her and
she knows he has her best interests in mind
and so when we think about submitting to
christ let's think about what christ says about
marriage right one he blesses marriage he believes
in marriage two it says that in verse 23 that he's
given the man to be the head of the marriage
and we'll get more to that so don't jump ahead
he knows what's best for her so when submitting
to the husband she's really submitted to christ
and submitting to the husband i mean
she's truly submitting herself to christ
not really to the husband and so let me
kind of take a step back surprisingly
paul the writer of this letter is writing to
believers this is in the context of a marriage
that is believers on both sides right and so the
question is what do we do if we are in a marriage
where we have one person that knows christ
involves christ the one that doesn't there's
still a submission on one of them there's still
a role to follow the husband again not to sin
but in respect and we're going to get more into
that and that that's that's one of the ways we'll
kind of jump more into this but when we look at
really what the definition of biblical submission
to marriage is it's a wife making a choice not
to overtly resist her husband's will this is not
to say she can't disagree with him that she
can't express her opinion really a wife this
is in submission to her husband's authority or
over her it's really strength it's not weakness
and here's the greatest example of that think
about christ and so if you don't know the story
i'm going to kind of catch up a little bit so
before jesus went to the cross was arrested
he went to the garden of distance and if
we we actually talked about this recently
before he was taken into into basically the
prison he was asking the lord to change his
circumstance if you can take this cut from me
if you can change this circumstance do it but
not my little journal see if you know enough
about the bible if you don't it's okay but the
bible says that jesus is equal to god he is god
but yet he submitted to his father in submission
why because god knew it was best god had not only
jesus best interests in mind but our best interest
see it was easy for jesus to submit even though
and when i say easy it was it was sure let's have
a disease to submit even in an instance where
it was a struggle that makes sense so so jesus
is our greatest example of submission to god so
we can submit to christ we can learn as wives to
submit to her husband so this is the part where i
would say okay you know let's just stop here right
live submit to the husband so let's just let's
just move on right and but here's where it gets
tough guys and this is where i want you guys to
listen up i'm kind of trying to look all yellow on
the eyes i spent this week reminding myself that
the next rest of the text is so important because
god's really placed us in a world in which we
reflect who christ is to our lives so let's look
at it so it says here in verse 20 well so a lot of
people jump down to first 23 we're going to do one
from there but verse 23 says again he is the head
of the wife as christ is head of the church and so
just kind of affirming some of the things we
talked about is if husbands are the head of
the wife just like christ's head of the
church how is christ head of the church
first of all christ set the example right he set
the example he said the example on how to follow
god he said the example on how to sacrifice he
said the example how to love so if men are placed
in this position of headship the head of that
family then he is really setting an example of
what it means to fall across what it means to care
for her and love for her and to despite her flaws
still love her provide for her empower her to live
before god and a reminder this first corinthians
13 4 says this love is patient love is kind love
is not in you it's not boastful it's not arrogant
see men we're supposed to believe in those things
now it is both sides why is it supposed to be love
is patient love is kind husbands are supposed to
understand that as well husbands leave the charge
that's why they're put in that position so men if
you want to know do you have a cop out to say hey
the answer is no you're leaving the
example just be honest of what submission
leaving an example of is is to christ
and that should be a wake up for us
of our role in the home right so you understand
this this is not for you to feel bad about what
you've done in the past this is for you to know
hey i can get it right today i can get it right
today and i can begin to move forward and work
and walk in that so verse 24 says this this is
to make her holy and cleansing with the washing of
the water of the word so how um and so it really
talks about here and so i'm gonna jump back here
um he's talking about christ in the body and how
the church which is the body of christ submits
to christ why she'll submit to their husbands in
everything so what's the translation with this
verse as you individually submit to christ as a
child of god you shall submit to your husbands
in everything who himself submits to christ
and so when it comes to most marital struggles
within the context of a christian relationship
do you know that the number one issue is
selfishness selfishness and this is the the
most difficult i think part of the world that we
live in is we are driven by selfishness meaning we
want to succeed we want to do what we want we want
to do what we think we want to do what pleases us
and so in the conflict of marriage it usually ends
up being a result of selfishness but this is where
the relationship of jesus matters so how do we
overcome it it comes where we have a relationship
with jesus together and we encourage each other to
follow jesus together and so if you're struggling
in your marriage today maybe you've struggled
in past marriages i don't know what it is
here's my encouragement for you it starts with
following jesus if you want to know where to go
it starts with following jesus so let's let's
really jump into the husbands in verse 25
um because this is where it's going to be a little
bit of sticky as we're going to walk through this
it says here in verse 25 it says husbands
love your wives just as christ loved the
church i also want to stop right
there okay now we gotta figure out
not hey husbands don't love your wives that's
it but as christ loved the church now we have
to figure out how to christ love the church
so let me ask this question how do you when
you think about christ love the churches do
you understand who the church is it's anybody
who would call themselves the following jesus how
did christ love the church give me some examples
it's good
anything else
so let's start with just sacrifice right so
husbands are supposed to love like christ christ
set the example the first the example he said was
how he was requested right so that's in verse 25
it says that we can't finish that before he says
he loves to watch just as christ loved the church
and gave himself for her and so when we think
about this true christian love is not self-seeking
it's really willing to sacrifice um for the
benefit of others and so i just think about
this then what are we not willing to sacrifice
for our lives because i mean we all are saying hey
guys if you're anything like me we have
this list probably in the back of our minds
that when our wife asks us to do something we
probably pull it out and say but i did this
but i did this i did this and the question is is
what are you not willing to sacrifice what is too
much what is too much well christ says that his
life wasn't too much and maybe if i pulled you
guys in this room if i said if you had to take a
bullet for your wife would you do it you probably
would say yes so it's not i'm not really lacking
that but sometimes it's in simple things right
so what if the dishes need to be done for husbands
should we serve in such a way do the dishes or
should we tell it until what about this men like
my wife's a stay-at-home mom when i get home what
if i told her hey i'm just going to take a break
you go to the kids all day go get your nails done
right or is it because i'm too tired and i'm
too selfish because i want to go sit down and
watch tv and i really want a dinner cook too do i
know so let's let's keep on going with that what
about this what if your wife wants to stay home
so what if your wife wants to stay home with the
kids and she wants to quit her job what do you
do man what do you do i don't know what you do
we chose to let them quit our job and stay
home and take care of the kids and change our
whole trajectory of finances and what life looked
like but here's what it was i was loving my life
like christ loved the church sacrificially so
let me tell you when she made that decision
i was a believer but not long before that
i wasn't a believer so just to kind of step
out there with you me and my wife were
actually unequally guilty as what they
call right somebody who was an unbeliever
and i believe that that was made together
and uh i would say this and i learned this
the moment that i give my life to christ
is the first day i've been
to love my wife like christ
and and that may sound crazy well didn't
you stand to alter and tell her you love her
give her a ring and didn't you provide for
absolutely i did but it was not the way that
christ loved her and set the example for
him and so there's there's things guys men
that that we need to be willing to sacrifice
jesus as the example to serve our wives so
let's keep going on so how else did christ
love the church well from a sanctifying love
and it says this in verse 26 and that's kind of
a big word we'll kind of talk about that this is
to make her wholly cleansing her with the washing
of the water by the ward that sounds a little bit
christianised and it a little bit is and i
get it i'm the same thing here's what it means
is when you are loving your wife in such
a way that sets her apart from the lord
sets her apart from both which means
you're setting her up for success
to love the lord and to to spend time with the
lord and to grow in her faith and you're you're
making her holy by pleasing her with anything like
the word of god right so you're giving her time to
love god and have a relationship with god you're
not just saying hey i'll do that and you just do
whatever else you know it's giving her space and
empowering her to have a relationship with god
when you look at it here is um it's a satisfying
one so verses 20 through 32 it says this in the
same way husbands are love their wives as their
own bodies he who loves his wife loves himself
and i think this is a great way why did paul use
this example um men we probably said the greatest
example of we really do love ourselves like we
i'm self okay so all this stuff frozen i'm pretty
suckers like i want what i want i want everything
to work around my schedule when i went in
and that's just the self-excitement so paul's
speaking to the heart of men who typically
want to say do everything that i want to do
and so you know husbands i'm just it sounds
like i'm kind of rolling on him you may be an
amazing husband and you're just affirming on
these things in life i hope that you affirm the
positives that your your husband's in your life
this is this is just a practical example for us as
we live our lifestyle from jesus how we apply it
in our lives and maybe some areas that we need to
work on to be better men and women and so we're
going to kind of see how this works together so
when we look at this therefore this is whatever
each does to each other he himself does to himself
so disagreements we'll talk about this opinion so
if you disagree and you're fighting you're really
fighting against yourself and and i know this i
don't like five minutes myself that's pretty much
a losing battle so the man who loves his wife
actually and loves his self so as your wife's
physical emotional and spiritual needs are met
then you're actually loving yourself man i don't
know if you can get enjoyment out of you know
your wife's one of our spiritual gifts it's like
my wife loves hitting flowers a waste of money
she's not in the room she does she knows this
but you know i buy flowers for her because it's
it's one sunscreen i'm sorry i use the wrong
turn it's a rough lunch flowers i can be
rude and just never buy our flowers because
you know what it's expensive it's wasted
but then on the other side this
is the part where i love is
this is not a one-way street right we're
sacrificing ourselves we're being sacrificial
in our relationship and we're being we're
being sanctified we're being satisfied in
relation but it is a two-way street watch you can
do the same thing when we talk about submitting
to his leadership he says the example was what
should you do follow his example see this is
where this picture is see why you thought you
started you're getting out of this hey ray
i'm submitting to him as he submits to christ
and he's got all these things he's got to do
but the answer to that is he's
sending the example for you
so let me ask this question is is
marriage and victory relationship
because it's not a competition we are one
we are one we get one of them together
when you separate and say it's 50 50 you've
separated yourself 100 means you're together
and there's days i'm just going to let
you know there's days where my wife gives
over a hundred and i give nothing i don't know why
because there's just days i'm having a lot of day
but there's days where i hit 100 and she's
giving lessons once that means means we're
working together to fill each other's gaps and
to empower each other and to really point each
other to christ to point each other to christ to
have that relationship and be from one another
that's the type of relationship that god
desires for us to have in our marriages
but sometimes we really wrestle with this
idea of we're on opposite sides and we're not
we're not we are togetherness and that's what i'm
reminded of every time is my wife is my biggest
cheerleader my biggest cheerleader i wouldn't
be ran today if she did not encourage me in the
moments in which i felt and i would say she's not
in the room but obviously the same thing for her
because there's days where she's struggling
to be a homeschool mom she's working in the
mornings she's trying to do other things she's
trying to help with the ministry and she's like
i feel like i have to go and you know what i need
to do i need to live here in the united states
you are succeeding and here's why i don't list
out every reason why she's like i don't see him
but thank you right so i am her biggest
cheerleader she's my biggest cheerleader
that's how god has designed this to
be that's how god's designed to be
let me just challenge you with this we're almost
ending i know i've seen a little longer but when
it comes to this idea of what does it look like
men to love your wives as christ-loving church
and we talk about meeting each
other's needs emotional physical
you name it right we need to learn this
in our relationships even in our friend
relationships let's just talk about this even
in our firm relations to be honest with each
other about what the other one does why your
husband doesn't know how to read your mind
husbands you should pay attention more okay
those are just two sides in the same place my
idea behind this is be honest with each other
i mean if we're for each other we want this
marriage to work out we want to be a godly
marriage we want to be for each other be honest
there's some days that say hey honey you're just
not paying attention to me you know how i say it
and i love you not an angry way like you don't
care about that right hey i know you've been
really busy i'd love to spend 15 minutes really
here you know that means a lot to her because i
told her what i needed and then there's sometimes
where she says honey you need to stop working you
need to stop thinking about ministry you need to
be present with the kids and it's hard to hear
though sometimes but then i stopped working and
i get on the ground and start thinking of kids
because she knows what i need i know what she
needs for each other so do not hold it in and
expect them to figure it out tell each other
because it's so much i'm telling you it's so much
better than marriage when you tell each other
so we look here in verse 32 and it says this
um it says this mystery is profound but
i'm talking about christ and the church
and so what he's saying is this whole example of
marriage has always been this example so he's kind
of saying hey the marriage looks like christ and
the church the church is those who follow jesus
their relationship so if we want to know how
to have a great relationship with marriage it
starts with having a relationship with jesus
that's really the picture we need have a wish
jesus and how is that relationship how's
that relationship is the question that you
should ask yourself maybe rather than trying
to fix your spouse fix your relationship with
jesus and as you do allow that to help fix maybe
the issues that you're having in your marriage
i i heard this statement and it really challenged
me what if god's purpose in marriage is to not
make you happy by having the perfect spouse but
to teach you to look like jesus by giving you a
perfected spouse that you can show grace mercy
love and forgiveness you know i'm telling you
i was there i think me and we didn't fight for
our first year we didn't once because that's
what i thought the picture of a relationship was
until you're too heavy and realizing this is a
battle right it's one that we are two people that
are different we work together and so as i came
to the family of jesus i realized that it is a
relationship that we get to show to the world
and so we are a picture to the world of what
a relationship with jesus looks like through
our marriage that may sound crazy but have
you ever had somebody say you know you and
your husband just really get along well
and you guys really work things out from
you take care of the kids and you kind of share
responsibilities whenever you're out in public
how do you do that and you know what we do because
it's not perfect everything i'm saying when they
do ask that question it's because of christ
because i care so much about her that i'm not
selfishly getting into my own conversations that
i'm actually caring about my kids in the room
right that's just one example it could be your
kids are really well disciplined in the restaurant
which is only occasionally when somebody comes
up and says you and your kids are great i'm like
you should've saw them last week but you know
what we tell them you know we we follow jesus
and as we submit to jesus and we raise our kids
unto god we teach them respect to their parents
which we're going to talk about next week come
back next week we're going to talk about the kids
on this but we get to point everybody
to jesus through our relationship
with our spouse so let me just kind of summarize
this up and i think verse 33 does this right
to sum up each one of you is to love his wife
as himself and the wife is to respect her
so how does this all come together know everybody
hasn't been here but over the last three
messages that we've talked to in this here's
kind of the titles all pushed together in one
statement be careful how you live by being filled
with the spirit and being united in marriage
as one under christ that's really where paul's
getting at be careful how you live knowing that
today is not guaranteed tomorrow is definitely
not guaranteed next moment's not guaranteed
spirit-filled which means really you're you're
in a great relationship with god and you're
expressing it through thanksgiving your expression
of joy you're expressing it through submission and
one for relationship in your marriage that's
what paul's getting at and it extends more
to the kids next week and then into your work
but that's where paul's getting at this point
so when you think of the wives and husbands being
filled with the spirit they have the example
of christ but why in the church right now when i
looked at it just the other day big 1 of marriages
in the church are our broken helmets right
divorce it happens and so here's my thing
it's not to knock that at all what it's to say
is we're foolish to think it can happen to us
you made me listen to this message today and you
guys were high fiving each other when you walk
out we're killing this this is great everything
he said we're doing but what about next week
when life gets tough so this is the point
where how do we respond today's message how
do we respond to this we have to start with
the number one most important relationship
and that is our relationship with jesus so as we
take time for invitation i want to just take a few
minutes i don't really do this every week but i'm
going to take just a few minutes i want you guys
to close your eyes i want you to take some time
to think through what god has taught you what
god is speaking about i'm hoping to kind of walk
you through that a little bit but i want you to
take some time just in your mind in your heart ask
this question is my relationship with jesus good
is it healthy is it a way in which would honor my
spouse or any other relationship that i have or
it would express in such a way to show other
people jesus and i know when a room decides
somebody doesn't know jesus and what i would say
with that is that's not me pressuring you into
this or this is me saying this that's where you've
got to start if you want to work on relationships
in your life it starts with a relationship with
jesus it starts with the original jesus so i
want to shout out this if you don't know jesus
i want you to consider giving your life to jesus
i want you to come talk to me after service i
want to share more detail of what it means to
follow jesus it's not difficult to come to jesus
it's not difficult to follow jesus but it is so
important that we make a decision too because
i think i've been there before i spent a year
in church before i ever followed jesus because
i thought i had to get everything right my life
but you don't so i want to challenge you today
if you haven't given up to jesus that you do that
maybe today during this this kind of invitation
which is a time for us to reflect on what god's
taught us maybe you do give your life to jesus
you say these things god i give my life to you
i repent of my sins i don't want to
follow you it's as simple as that
surrendering your life to me but maybe
you've already surrendered your life
to jesus and this is maybe what you need to
process through during the time of invitation
god as a husband or as a wife am
i honoring you on how i'm living
through submission or maybe it's through
the way i love my wife and sacrificially
serve her and if maybe you're struggling in there
i just pray for you to repent and turn to god
give that to you and i challenge if you have
a spouse in this room or maybe your spouse is
serving children's i just i encourage you to
pray for them pray with them during the summer
meditation to be better for each other be better
in relationships with jesus and be for each other
because i'm telling you it will transform
your marriage if you listen to jesus
so i'm going to pray as i pray our man will lead
us in a time of worship again just take some time
to reflect and ask god what he's calling
you to do i'm going to be up here up front
come see me if you want me to pray with you
if you've got questions about following jesus
because i want you to know who jesus is
and i want you to know that you're here
to walk through life in a new life
so let's pray lord jesus we love you
god i am thank you for your word because i
know it's true lord i'm thankful that you give
us guidance for how to live our relationships
or just outside our relationship with you and
what i was challenged this week the lord if i'm
struggling in even my own marriage or any other
relationship that i have lord that i first need
to come to you and get that relationship right
forward and then come back and address the
issues of the problems that we may be facing
because the lord i know you will give us guidance
and wisdom to love the other person in a way that
lord you love them lord i just think about your
sacrifice on the cross lord you did not hold back
anything to show your love and your mercy and
your grace to us so lord why would i withhold that
to my spouse or to a friend or to love when
you gave so lord i pray during this time of
invitation we will open our hearts to repent
turn to you ask for forgiveness and guidance
lord to move forward in a way that's good
for us and it's better for those around us